We can also create custom
stores because remember,
the store contract is very simple.
You just need to have a subscribe method
and anything beyond that is up to you.
So if we take our count store
from the first store example,
then what we can do is add increment,
decrement, and
reset methods on the store itself.
In our stores tab, we have a new function
to create a special count store.
And inside that we're beginning
by creating a writable store
just like we had before when we
were doing all this ourselves.
And we're destructuring it to get
references to subscribe, set, and
update, which are the three methods
that exist on a writable store.
And what we're gonna turn
that into is a store where
you can only change
the value in specific ways.
So whereas before you could
have a count store and
then you could do count.set potato or
something irrelevant like that.
This time,
the store is gonna expose its own API.
So our increment function
is gonna look like this,
exactly as we had when we had
an increment the component.
n plus 1 and then the same down here,
update n minus 1.
And then set zero.
And then inside our app.svelte,
we're already referencing those functions.
And that works exactly
as you would expect.
Just as you combined two component state,
you can also bind two store values.
So here we have a store
representing a string,
which is the name of the user.
And then we have another store that
is derived from that store value.
So we want to do is wire up this input
to the value of the name store so
that the greeting is automatically
derived whenever that changes.
So the h1 is displaying the derived value.
The input is displaying the input value.
And I'm going to change
that into a binding,
just to show that it doesn't
do anything right now.
Find current value, And
it works exactly as a regular input would.
Now we can also change the value
of stores inside components
either inside the script block or
inside the markup.
So we can add a button here.
Give it an event handler
every time we click it.
We're gonna change the value
of name directly and
then now every time we press
that the store value is updated.
This is the same as doing this.
But it's just a little bit neater.